Script files:

- Social_capital_data_improt_R - this imports the data from elasticsearch (see explanation below) - this is not relevant for the Data School Focus excersise
- Tidying data: this imports csv files generated by the above script; also does initial tidying of the data
- exploratory analysis: initial exploratory analysis of the data

data files
- datafiles can be made available on request (for internal CSIRO use)
- social_capital_data_2015-2019.csv
-- this is the social media data generated from ElasticSearch outputs
- population_sydney_councils.csv
-- ABS population data (this was already tidied by a colleague for this project)

The dataset is a collection of twitter posts from or about Sydney councils.
We use two tools (Vizie and ESA) developed by the Data61 LASC team to collect the social media data.

The original data is stored in elasticsearch. To make it available in R it has to be read into R from elasticsearch; the elasic package facilitates doind this.
As the dataset if faily large (approx 300-400k posts), the data is read in yearly chunks. The data then has to be pre-processed; elasticsearch stores some fields in lists with multiple entries (e.g. there can be more than one hashtag per post) - the search string has to be unlisted and put into a data frame (this is done with a set of for loops; this process takes a very long time).
The yearly dataframes are then stored as separage csv files and once csv fiels for all years have been produced these are joined into a final data set (which is again stored as csv). This final dataset (currently approx 65mb) is not stored in GIT hub.

The original dataset “grows” continuously with new twitter posts coming in (for the excersise I can use the saved csv file); so the 2019 data will have to be updated occasionaly.

The csv file has ~300k (one row for each post) and 14 variables:
  authorid – unique number for twitter post author
activities – grouping variable – grouping of post search terms – all 3-levels
topactivities - grouping variable – – grouping of post search terms – second level
categoryruletext –  grouping variable – – grouping of post search terms – first level
keyterms – keywords extracted form posts
sentiment – classifier - sentiment of post-test (positive , negative , neutral)
emotions – classifier – emotion of post-text (joy, love, surprise, anger, sadness, fear, other)
hashtags - hashtags
link – URL link to tweet
publisheddate – date when post was published
gender  - classified gender of author
medias  - type of medium (this is same for all as we only consider twitter posts here – microblog)
indvorg – classifier – is the author an individual or organisation

Note: the data is used in a current Data61 project; we have ethics clearance for using the data for the project purposes; we are only allowed to report aggregated data and have to make sure that we don’t make info public that in some way could help identify individuals.

